OKTA-612014 Simulation Policy API Doc (#4170)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/policy-simulation/main/index.md

---
title: Test your policies with access simulations
excerpt: Provides documentation on testing your policies using the Policy APIs simulate endpoint
layout: Guides
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

This guide explains how to test your access policies by using the `/simulate` endpoint of the Policy API.

---

**Learning outcomes**

* Understand how to configure and send policy simulation tests using the Policy API.
* Send and receive an example simulation call.

**What you need**

* [Okta Preview organization](https://developer.okta.com/login)
* An app to test your access policies
* The Early Access self-service Access Test Tool feature enabled on your org. See [Early Access](/docs/reference/releases-at-okta/#early-access-ea).

**Sample code**

If you need a simple application for testing, see [Sign users in to your SPA using the redirect model and AuthJS](/docs/guides/auth-js-redirect/main/).

---

## About Policy Simulation

> The policy API can be used to simulate real-world user requests to access an application. In the Admin Console, these simulations are run using the Access Testing Tool available from **Reports** > **Access testing tool**. See [Access Testing Tool](https://help.okta.com/en/programs/aps/Content/Topics/betas/closed/access-policy-simulation/test-an-access-scenario.htm). <!--Update this link to alias when ready --> The API endpoint that underpins this tool is also available for developers to simulate policy configurations and to test application access. For full details on the API endpoint, see the [Policy API reference](/docs/reference/api//policy/#access-simulation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Policy API to simulate real-world user requests to access an application. In the Admin Console, these simulations are run using the Access Testing Tool available from **Reports** > **Access testing tool**. See [Access Testing Tool](https://help.okta.com/en/programs/aps/Content/Topics/betas/closed/access-policy-simulation/test-an-access-scenario.htm). <!--Update this link to alias when ready --> The API endpoint that underpins this tool is also available for developers to simulate policy configurations and to test application access. For full details on the API endpoint, see the [Policy API reference](/docs/reference/api/policy/#access-simulation).
```
Is the Policy API not migrated to Redocly?

Author: The Policy API is available (but still needs to be reviewed/updated). However, we have added the new endpoint to the reference on Redocly.

> The policy simulations run access tests based on existing policy configurations, and which rules and settings were matched to create the authentication and enrollment requirements. Results of the tests determine individual or group access to an app. You can simulate matches for the following types of policies and rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy simulations run access tests based on existing policy configurations and which rules and settings are matched to create the authentication and enrollment requirements. Results of the tests determine individual or group access to an app. You can simulate matches for the following types of policies and rules:
```

* Authentication policies
* Authenticator enrollment policies
* Global Session Policies
* User enrollment policies for apps

For background information on policies, see [Policies](/docs/concepts/policies) and [Global session and authentication policies](/docs/guides/configure-signon-policy/main/).

> ## Sample Use Case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample use case
```

The sample use case creates a scenario based on group access to your sample app. The policy simulation endpoint tests access to the app when different groups are assigned to the app.

To configure this set up, create a group called Sales and ensure that only this group is assigned to your sample app. See [Manage Groups](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext_Directory_Groups).

> In this use-case, the app only allows users of the Sales group to access your sample application. Use the following calls to test this scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this use case, the app only allows users of the Sales group to access your sample application. Use the following calls to test this scenario.
```

## Create a Post call for Sales

For this call, you need the `id` for your application and the `id` for the Sales group.

To find these values:

1. Call the [Groups API](/docs/reference/api/groups/#find-groups) with the query parameter as follows: `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups?q=Sales`. Save the `id` value from the response.

1. Call the [Apps API](/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-applications) with the query parameter as follows: `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps?q={YourAppName}`. Save the `id` value from the response. Alternatively, the client ID available in the Admin Console is the `id` of your application.

To simulate the first scenario, use the following call but replace the following values:

* `${api_token}`: your org's API token value

> * `${yourOktaDomain}`: your Okta domain, for example, "https://example.oktapreview.com"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `${yourOktaDomain}`: your Okta domain, for example, `https://example.oktapreview.com`
```
